---
layout: post
title: TZDB 2.0.2019b
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pavkam/tzdb/master/media/logo.jpg
tags: delphi tzdb programming
---
After a few weeks of intense rewrites and tests I am finally proud to release **TZDB 2.0 (2019b)** released.



**:warning: This is a breaking release. You might need to fix your code after the update.**

- `TBudledTimeZone` no longer derives from `TTimeZone` on Delphi. This has finally freed me from having to implement crooked functionality that fits into the Delphi model. Also resulted in much needed simplification of the code base.
- Implementation now uses generic classes on both Delphi and FreePascal. This should ensure compatibility with future version of Delphi. As a result, I have dropped support for versions of Delphi pre-XP. Minimum supported FreePascal version is 3.0.
- Rewrote internals to use year segments for all  operations. A year is now being split internally into distinct time segments. Each operation now only has to find the segment that describes a time and then use its meta-data. Before this change, each operation would have its own quirks and implementation details.
- `GetYearBreakdown` allows pulling all time segments for a given year. No more looping by second required!
- New `DbVersion` property allows checking the IANA DB version.
- General fixes for exotic time zones such as `Cairo` in `1900`, `2010`, `2012` and `2014`.
- Fixes for zones with negative DST offsets such as `Dublin`.
- ... and more fixes!
- Added special build script that allowed me to combine the three files into `TZDB.pas` file that is available in the `/dist/TZDB.pas` path in root. Simply drop that unit into your project and you're good to go!



This concludes my TZDB "_intervention_" for a while. I think the current version is quite good and should do its job well into next years.

The latest source code is available [here](https://github.com/pavkam/tzdb/releases/tag/2.0.2019b).

Enjoy!
